(upbeat music)
All right here it is, the video
that is probably one of the scariest words in JavaScript
and this is one of those things that
comes up in interviews all the time
and that is JavaScript closures.
You may have read, I don't know,
400 different articles on closures
and there's a whole lot of like examples
being thrown around
and quite frankly, it's a hard concept to get
but I think that it can be relatively simple
to understand.
So let's try tackle that and help you understand
at least like the basics of what a closure is
and then as we build stuff,
I'm gonna be like "Hey, this is a closure."
"this is why a closure is helpful.".
So let's lay some ground for that.
We're gonna go in our playground
and let's make a new file called closures.html
and we'll use our html base
and we'll just open that up in the browser.
Let's open up a set of script tags
and inside of that,
we are going to start to learn about closures.
So, a closure is the ability to access
a parent level scope from a child scope
even after the parent function has been terminated.
So, I usually don't like examples
that are very simple and not real world
but this is kind of a hard concept to get.
So we're just gonna make a function inside of a function
that's called inner and outer.
Just to illustrate the example
then we'll go into some more fun examples.
So, we've got a function here and let's call it outer
and then inside of that,
we'll make a variable called outer var
is equal to Hey I am the outer Var.
Now, inside of that, make another function.
We'll call it inner
and in here, let's just console.log.
Actually, let's make another variable.
Const inner var is equal to Hey I am an inner var.
Now, we already learned in scope
that I can like do this.
I can console.log, inner var of course
because that variable is inside of this function scope.
But I can also log the outer var
because what happens is the scope lookup chain.
We'll say okay there's no variable called outer var
instead of this function,
so let me go one level up
up the scope chain and we'll look there
and it'll keep going up until it finds
what it's looking for or nothing.
In our case it'll go up one level,
to our outer function here and it'll say
"Oh, the scope here has a variable called outer var."
I found it, I'm gonna go ahead and log it. Right?
So if I go inside of my function
outer function here and run inner
and we open this up in our browser here
and we were to run the outer function,
we see both so we have the inner and the outer variables.
Same thing as if I were to call it right from here
on page load.
When it loads, you see that the inner function
is able to do a scope lookup and see the outer.
Now, the kind of interesting thing,
we've learned about that.
That's not really a closure just yet
but where closures come into play
is where you don't call this function
from inside of the outer function,
but you call it at a later point in time.
So, let's not call that.
Let's get rid of this calling here
and from this function, let's return the inner function.
Right? So we can either do it like that or down here,
we could say return inner.
Let's do that.
Now, we'll go down here and say const inner fn.
We'll call it something else is equal to outer.
Now, what's going on here?
We are running the outer function.
It's creating an outer variable
and then we are returning the inner function.
So that's why I'm sticking it in a variable
and if we were to take a look at what the inner fn is now,
you'll see it's just a function.
Now, here's the question.
If I were to run the inner fn from out here,
is the outer variable still going to be accessible?
Or is it gonna be undefined?
Right?
Because like I ran the outer function up here.
That's where it created the variable
and then it returned this inner function.
Is that going to still be available to us?
Or will it be undefined?
Let's go ahead and try.
They both work.
So, what I could do is
I can stick a function into a variable
and then at a later point in time,
I have access to that inner function
and where a closure comes into play
is the fact that even though this outer function is done,
we're done. It should be cleaned up, right?
We ran it and we learned in scoping
that when a function is done,
anytime there are scoped variables,
that aren't returned from the function,
then they're not accessible.
Now we get this weird thing
where when I run my function outside of it,
it's still able to access it
and that is what is referred to as a closure.
So, JavaScript is able to
create functions inside of functions
and it could still reach outside to the parent scope
and even though the outer function is done running,
it will still maintain that variable in memory
so that we can then access it at a later time, right?
Like here I can just go back here and run it again.
If I were to rerun that function,
I still have access to it.
It's not cleaned up,
it's not you'll probably hear the term "garbage collected"
or anything like that.
It is still available
because we have sort of the secret agent inside
that's able to access it.
Now, why would that ever be helpful to you?
This looks really confusing.
Inner and outer and all kinds of stuff.
So let's look at some actual examples that we have here.
So first thing I wanna do is show you an example
of a closure creating a function.
That's what we did right here.
Second example I'm going to show you
how you can use closures just to create
sort of what are called private variables.
So here, we'll make a function.
We'll call that create greeting.
That will take in a greeting of nothing.
Then we will make a my greet variable
that is simply just we'll just take the greeting
that got passed in and run .toUpperCase against it.
Then from here, well return a function.
We don't really have to name it.
We'll take in the person's name
and then we'll return.
The greeting, my greet
and a persons name.
Now, why is that helpful,
like why did I do this in two separate functions?
Is because you can create functions
that are based off of whichever greeting you like.
So we can make one called const say hello
is equal to create greeting.
Hello.
And we'll make another one that is say hey
and we'll say hey.
Now, what's cool about that is we can console log.
Say hello to Wes.
We can do another say hello to Kait
and then we can do maybe another third one
that says hey also to Kait
and let's refresh. Hello.
Hello.
Hey.
Wes.
Kait.
Now, what's happening here is that
when you create this outer function, create greeting,
because we've created a variable inside of that function,
that is then accessed at a lower scope
so we've got inner scope here.
We've got our outer scope here
because our inner scope references a variable
that was created in our outer scope,
that is what is referred to as a closure.
Where we still are able to access our outer variables
inside of this outer function scope, inside of our inner,
even after this function create greeting
has been closed over.
That's the whole idea behind closure.
It's been closed.
After we've run this function, it's closed
but we are still able to access the sort of magic space
in between and access those variables.
So, that's the first one
where you have functions inside of functions
and they are able to access the closure data
inside of that.
The other sort of similar way is to create what are called
private variables.
So, we'll make another one called create game
and we're going to be keeping score
and we'll take in the game name.
Here, we'll say let score is equal to 0
and then we will make a function called win
and inside of that function, we will take the score,
and increment it by 1
and then return your game
we'll input the game name.
Score is, we'll put the score in there.
Now, I can go down here and make a game.
Const hockey game is equal to create game.
We'll call it a hockey game
and now whenever we run that hockey game function,
it says hockey game is not defined.
What did I do?
Hockey game is not a function.
Oh we forgot to actually return the function
from this outer scope.
So let's try it again.
Your hockey score is 1.
Now when I run it a second time,
it's gonna be 2,
3,
4,
5.
Now, what's happening here is that
the function that we create is called win
and we are using a score variable.
So whenever we create the game,
we create an empty score variable
and then this inner function, whenever we actually run it,
will increment the score variable that is of the scope
of the outer scope.
Now, why is that even helpful?
Well you can maintain multiple games at once.
So let's call it a soccer game.
I know you, everybody else calls it football
but that's weird.
Soccer.
Now here, we can go ahead and rerun hockey game
a couple times
and then I can call soccer game
and you see the variable.
Even though this score is the same variable name,
because we have created two separate win functions,
by using this create game function,
they each have their own sort of private variable score.
Like, there's no current,
currently there's no way for us to access that score
variable.
See if I do score,
there is no variable called score.
There's no way for me to access that
unless I were to explicitly return it from this function.
Or in our case, putting it into a string.
So again, that's sort of a high level primer
on what closures are.
Closures are the ability for a child function,
or an inner function,
to access variables from a higher level scope
even after the functions have been called or closed.
Or closed over.
So, that's a bit of a hard concept.
We're gonna be returning to that quite a bit
as we do things like scope and
we're gonna do a more advanced example
of this create game where we can maintain score
and increment and decrement and pull up the score
at any given time
but that's the high level of what closures are for now.
With that, let's jump into some dom stuff.